Document Azure CLI access (#18979)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/application-access/guides/azure.mdx

</Notice>

### Use Azure CLI applications without `tsh`

In addition to running `az` commands via `tsh`, you can grant secure access to
any CLI application that executes commands against Azure's APIs.

To do this, use `tsh` to start a local proxy that forwards traffic from your CLI
application to the Teleport Application Service. The Application Service uses an
Azure managed identity to fetch an authentication token from Azure, which your
CLI application uses to authenticate requests to Azure's APIs.

To start the local proxy, run the following `tsh` command:

```code
$ tsh proxy azure 
```

The command will print the address of the local proxy server along with `export`
commands for assigning environment variables. Azure CLI applications read these
variables in order to request an authentication token for Azure's APIs:

```text
Started Azure proxy on http://127.0.0.1:54330.
To avoid port randomization, you can choose the listening port using the --port flag.

Use the following credentials and HTTPS proxy setting to connect to the proxy:

  export AZURE_CONFIG_DIR=/Users/myuser/.azure-teleport
  export HTTPS_PROXY=http://127.0.0.1:54330
  export HTTP_PROXY=http://127.0.0.1:54330

>   export MSI_ENDPOINT=https://azure-msi.teleport.dev

Reviewer: This is being discussed in the code PR, but most likely, we will have some auth mechanism for accessing `MSI_ENDPOINT`: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/18675#discussion_r1040641188. 

The likely solution is a random hex attached at the end:
```
export MSI_ENDPOINT=https://azure-msi.teleport.dev/eedfd5b55257c0aaa58f
```

But also with an option to set this by the user:
```
$ export MSI_ENDPOINT=https://azure-msi.teleport.dev/MY-CUSTOM-SECRET
$ tsh proxy azure --port 3500
Started Azure proxy on http://127.0.0.1:3500.

Use the following credentials and HTTPS proxy setting to connect to the proxy:

  export AZURE_CONFIG_DIR=/Users/tener/.azure-teleport-azure
  export HTTPS_PROXY=http://127.0.0.1:3500
  export MSI_ENDPOINT=https://azure-msi.teleport.dev/MY-CUSTOM-SECRET
  export REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE=/Users/tener/.tsh/keys/boson.tener.io/tener-app/boson.tener.io/azure-localca.pem
```

This may be one of the details that will have to wait until the code PR is merged to master, though.

---
title: "Protect the Azure CLI with Teleport Application Access"
description: How to enable secure access to the Azure CLI.
---

You can use Teleport Application Access to manage the commands that your users
can run via the Azure CLI. This lets you control access to your
infrastructure's management APIs using the same RBAC system that you use to
protect your infrastructure itself.

The Teleport Application Service runs on an Azure VM and proxies requests from
end users to Azure's APIs. Teleport users can then execute requests via the
Azure CLI through Teleport as long as one of their roles allows access to an

> appropriate Azure managed identity. 

Author: I've added more context

> You can run the Application Service VM in a private network to prevent

Reviewer 2: Is this instead of the declaration above "The Teleport Application Service runs on an Azure VM...", or does it refer to an Azure VM in a private network (not publicly accessible), as opposed to a VM in a physical private network like an in-office LAN?

Author: I've added some context—this refers to running the VM without exposing any ports to the public internet

**User-assigned managed identity**. Choose the `teleport-azure` identity you
created earlier. 

![Select managed
identities](../../../img/application-access/azure/select-managed-identities.png)

Click **Select**, then **Review + assign**.

Verify that your **Role** is "Reader", the **Scope** matches your chosen
resource group, and the **Members** field includes the `teleport-azure` managed
identity you created earlier.

Click **Review + assign** again.

### Attach an identity to your Azure VM

Now that you have created a managed identity and assigned it a role, attach the
identity to your Azure VM so the Teleport Application Service can assume the
identity in order to proxy Azure CLI traffic.

In the [Virtual machines
view](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Compute%2FVirtualMachines)
of Azure Portal, click on the name of the VM you are using to host the Teleport
Application Service. 

On the right side panel, click the **Identity** tab, then within the
**Identity** view, click the **User assigned** tab. Click **+Add**, then select
the `teleport-azure` identity. Click **Add**.

![Add an identity to a

> VM](../../../img/application-access/azure/vm-identity.png)

Author: I've added these instructions using the Azure Portal since the previous instructions also used this

## Step 2/4. Deploy the Teleport Application Service

In this step, you will run the Teleport Application Service on the Azure VM you

> assigned the `teleport-azure` identity to. The Teleport Application Service

Author: Since this section is about running the Application Service, and I've added more context about how the Application Service works at the beginning of the guide, I've suggested removing everything in this paragraph after the first sentence.

assumes this identity in order to proxy Azure CLI traffic, making it possible to
use Teleport to manage access to administrative tasks in Azure.

> ### Get a join token

Author: Our step-by-step guides for Teleport's services usually take the manual approach (I think the only exception is the Desktop Access [getting started guide](https://goteleport.com/docs/desktop-access/getting-started/)). I definitely think we need to include instructions for using the automatic approach, but am not sure what the cleanest way to do so is. We have a [GitHub issue for this](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/15060), and I am tempted to leave this task for when we start working on that issue.

Establish trust between your Teleport cluster and your new Application Service
instance by creating a join token:

```code
$ tctl nodes add --roles=app
The invite token: (=presets.tokens.first=)
This token will expire in 30 minutes.
Run this on the new node to join the cluster:
> teleport start \
   --roles=app \
   --token=(=presets.tokens.first=) \
   --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
   --auth-server=192.0.2.255:3025
Please note:
  - This invitation token will expire in 30 minutes
  - 192.0.2.255:3025 must be reachable from the new node
```

> On the host where you are running the Teleport Application Service, create a

Reviewer 2: The tenses conflict here as "are running" compared to "will install" below.

```code
$ sudo teleport install systemd --output=/etc/systemd/system/teleport.service;
$ sudo systemctl enable teleport; 
$ sudo systemctl start teleport; 
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Step 3/4. Enable your user to access the Azure CLI

The next step is to authorize your Teleport user to assume an Azure identity and
execute Azure CLI commands via Teleport. You will protect access to this
identity using Teleport's RBAC system, where a user's roles determine which
Azure managed identities (if any) they can access.

Create a file called `azure-cli-access.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: azure-cli-access
spec:
  allow:
    app_labels:
      '*': '*'
    azure_identities:
      - /subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/my-resource-group/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/teleport-azure

```

This role grants a user access to any Teleport-registered application, such as
the `azure-cli` application we defined earlier, and allows that user to assume
the `teleport-azure` identity you created earlier.

Edit the identity URI in the `azure_identities` field to match the one you

> copied earlier.

Reviewer 2: Could/should we specify?

```suggestion
copied in [step 1](#create-an-azure-managed-identity).
```

Author: I've specified the step, though I don't think we should create a link, since that could lead to the reader landing in some possibly unexpected part of the doc and losing their place.

Create the role:

```code
$ tctl create -f azure-cli-access.yaml
```

> Assign this role to your Teleport user by running the following commands,

Reviewer 2: Assuming your [other PR](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/18831) is merged by the time you come back to this, I suggest replacing this with your cool new partial.

depending on whether you authenticate as a local Teleport user or via the
`github`, `saml`, or `oidc` authentication connectors: 

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Local User">

Retrieve your local user's configuration resource:

```code
$ tctl get users/$(tsh status -f json | jq -r '.active.username') > out.yaml
```

> Edit `out.yaml`, adding `azure-cli-access` to the list of

Author: Since we're using the new `add-role-to-user.mdx` partial, I've opened an issue to use `tctl users update` in that partial: https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/19067

section. The attribute you will map to this role will depend on how you have
designed your organization's RBAC, but it should be the smallest group possible
within your organization. This group must also include your user.

Here is an example:

```diff
  attributes_to_roles:
    - name: "groups" 
      value: "my-group" 
      roles:
        - access
+       - azure-cli-access
```

Apply your changes:

```code
$ tctl create -f saml.yaml
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="OIDC">

Retrieve your `oidc`  configuration resource:

```code
$ tctl get oidc/myoidc > oidc.yaml
```

Edit `oidc.yaml`, adding `azure-cli-access` to the `claims_to_roles` section.
The claim you will map to this role will depend on how you have designed your
organization's RBAC, but it should be the smallest group possible within your
organization. This group must also include your user.

Here is an example:

```diff
  claims_to_roles:
    - name: "groups" 
      value: "my-group" 
      roles:
        - access
+       - azure-cli-access
```

Apply your changes:

```code
$ tctl create -f saml.yaml
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Log out of your Teleport cluster and log in again to assume the new role.

> <Details title="Configuring Azure identities per user">

Author: I'm not super familiar with SSO in Teleport—would this mean defining a custom claim/attribute via your IdP called `azure_identities`, then adding `{{external.azure_identities}}` under `allow.azure_identities` in the `azure-cli-access` role?

following:

```yaml
kind: role
version: v5
metadata:
  name: azure-cli-access
spec:
  allow:
    app_labels:
      '*': '*'
    azure_identities:
      - '{{internal.azure_identities}}'
```

In this case, when a user authenticates to the Azure CLI via Teleport, the
Teleport Auth Service populates the `{{internal.azure_identities}}` template
variable with any Azure identities you have assigned to the user.

To assign Azure identities to a user, run a `tctl users update` command similar
to the following:

```code
$ TELEPORT_USER=myuser;
$ ID1=one_id;
$ ID2=another_id;
$ SUBSCRIPTION_ID=00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000;
$ RESOURCE_GROUP="my-resource-group";
$ tctl users update ${TELEPORT_USER?} --set-azure-identities \
 `/subscriptions/${SUBSCRIPTION_ID?}/resourceGroups/${MY_RESOURCE_GROUP?}/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/${ID1?},\
 `/subscriptions/${SUBSCRIPTION_ID?}/resourceGroups/${MY_RESOURCE_GROUP?}/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/${ID2?}
```

This command uses the `--set-azure-identities` flag to add Azure identities to a
user. The value of this flag is a comma-separated list of Azure identity URIs.

> You must attach all identities you would like users to access to the Azure VM
> running the Application Service so the Application Service can make requests to
> the Azure API using those identities.

Reviewer 2: This seems technically correct and all that, but it's a mouthful and took me a couple passes to parse. Not sure how to best rephrase, maybe...

```suggestion
You must attach all identities you would like users to access to the Azure VM
running the Application Service. This lets the Application Service make requests to
the Azure API using those identities.
```

Something like that, splitting up the single sentence?

identity, you can use Teleport to authenticate to the Azure API and execute
commands against it via the `az` CLI.

### List your Azure CLI application

Verify that your Teleport user can see the `azure-cli` application you
registered earlier:

```code
$ tsh apps ls
Application Description Type Public Address                 Labels
----------- ----------- ---- ------------------------------ -------------------
azure-cli               HTTP azure-cli.teleport.example.com teleport.dev/origin
```

### Log in to use the Azure CLI

Log in to the application, specifying that you would like to assume the
`teleport-azure` identity:

```code
$ tsh app login azure-cli --azure-identity teleport-azure
```

This command validates the value of the `--azure-identity` flag against the ones
the user is authorized to assume. The value of the flag can either be the full
URI of the identity (e.g., the URI you copied earlier in this guide) or the name
of the identity, e.g., `teleport-azure`. 

A user can leave the `--azure-identity` flag blank if they are only authorized
to access a single Azure identity, but otherwise an empty `--azure-identity`

> will result in an error.

Reviewer 2: Would they live it blank or not include the flag?

Reviewer: If they have access to exactly one identity, the flag can be omitted. Otherwise, you need to specify the identity. Perhaps this paragraph could be rephrased to educate about the reason the flag is sometimes required and sometimes not.

Author: 👍

If the command succeeds, you will see information about the user's chosen Azure
identity similar to the following:

```text

> Logged into Azure app "azure-cli".
> Your identity: /subscriptions/0000000000000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/example-resource-group/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/teleport-azure
> Example Azure CLI command: tsh az vm list
> 
> [
>   {
>     "environmentName": "AzureCloud",
>     "homeTenantId": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
>     "id": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
>     "isDefault": true,
>     "managedByTenants": [],
>     "name": "Microsoft Azure Sponsorship",
>     "state": "Enabled",
>     "tenantId": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
>     "user": {
>       "assignedIdentityInfo": "MSIResource-/subscriptions/0000000000000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/example-resource-group/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/teleport-azure",
>       "name": "userAssignedIdentity",
>       "type": "servicePrincipal"
>     }
>   }
> ]

Reviewer: This is now swapped; first we print the output from `az login -i`, then the comments from `tsh`.

```suggestion
[
  {
    "environmentName": "AzureCloud",
    "homeTenantId": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
    "id": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
    "isDefault": true,
    "managedByTenants": [],
    "name": "Microsoft Azure Sponsorship",
    "state": "Enabled",
    "tenantId": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
    "user": {
      "assignedIdentityInfo": "MSIResource-/subscriptions/0000000000000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/example-resource-group/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/teleport-azure",
      "name": "userAssignedIdentity",
      "type": "servicePrincipal"
    }
  }
]

Logged into Azure app "azure-cli".
Your identity: /subscriptions/0000000000000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/example-resource-group/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/teleport-azure
Example Azure CLI command: tsh az vm list
```

```

### Execute Azure CLI commands

At this point, you can run `az` commands using the Teleport Application Service
by prefixing them with `tsh`. To list VMs running in your Azure resource group,
for example, run the following command:

```code

> $ tsh az vm list;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ tsh az vm list
```

---
title: "Protect the Azure CLI with Teleport Application Access"
description: How to enable secure access to the Azure CLI.
---

You can use Teleport Application Access to manage access to Azure CLI tools.
This lets you control access to your infrastructure's management APIs using the
same RBAC system that you use to protect your infrastructure itself.

The Teleport Application Service uses Azure managed identities to obtain
authentication tokens from Azure. When a user authenticates to Teleport, they
can assume one of these managed identities to execute Azure CLI commands.

You can configure which Teleport users or roles have access to specific Azure
identities, giving you control over who can obtain credentials for different

> levels of access to Azure CLIs.

Author: There are, including custom ones. I've clarified what an "Azure CLI" means in the first paragraph.

assigned the `teleport-azure` identity to. 

### Get a join token

Establish trust between your Teleport cluster and your new Application Service
instance by creating a join token:

```code
$ tctl nodes add --roles=app
The invite token: (=presets.tokens.first=)
This token will expire in 30 minutes.
Run this on the new node to join the cluster:
> teleport start \
   --roles=app \
   --token=(=presets.tokens.first=) \
   --ca-pin=(=presets.ca_pin=) \
   --auth-server=192.0.2.255:3025
Please note:
  - This invitation token will expire in 30 minutes
  - 192.0.2.255:3025 must be reachable from the new node
```

On the host where you will install the Teleport Application Service, create a
file called `/tmp/token` that consists only of your token:

```code
$ echo <Var name="join-token" /> | sudo tee /tmp/token
```

### Install the Teleport Application Service

Run the following commands on the host where you will install the Teleport
Application Service:

<Tabs dropdownView dropdownCaption="Teleport Edition">
<TabItem label="Self-Hosted" scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}>

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Teleport Cloud" scope="cloud">

> (!docs/pages/includes/install-agent-cloud.mdx service="the Teleport Kubernetes Service"!)

Reviewer 2: Kubernetes service isn't correct for this context, though I'm also not seeing this var being used in the render.

Author: That was a lazy copy/paste oversight on my part. That partial had a parameter at one point, but I removed it because the docs linter was (at the time, but not now) erroring on partials with default param values.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Configure the Teleport Application Service

On the host where you will run the Teleport Application Service, create a file
at `/etc/teleport.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
version: v3
teleport:
  join_params:
    token_name: "/tmp/token"
    method: token

>   proxy_server: "teleport.example.com:3080"

Reviewer 2: Following other discussions in docs PRs and the standard implementation we're suggesting, we should probably assume/define the proxy server with a default port of `443` in our examples. This comment applies to L226 as well.
